Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain a drama,
sci-fi, thriller film called “Synchronic.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A young couple lays in bed at a hotel, preparing
to take a designer drug called Synchronic,
expecting to have some fun. They take the pill
and wait several minutes. The man then heads to
the lobby taking an elevator. The woman remains
in bed and waits for the drug to take effect.
Not long later, the woman starts seeing shrubs
and plants in the room. The man notices the
elevator malfunctioning and sees the elevator
walls disintegrating. In front of him, a desert
wasteland appears. The woman experiences the same,
with the walls around her slowly fading away,
and a strange tribal-looking man appears through
the wall. The elevator floor disappears, and
the man finds himself falling onto the sand. The
woman also finds herself in the middle of a dense
jungle, and the strange man moves closer. She
sees a snake coming toward her, and she screams.
Steve and Dennis are longtime best friends working
as emergency medical response personnel in New
Orleans. They respond to a drug overdose. They
locate the house and find two people on the floor.
Dennis tends to the bleeding man, seeing he’s
still alive and applying the necessary medical
procedure. Steve tends to the overdose victim and
gets pricked by a syringe. He injects the girl,
and she springs awake. Dennis finds that the
man had been penetrated through to the back,
discovering a bleeding exit wound. The police
arrive and find a wrapper for Synchronic and
conclude that the situation is simply a
result of addicts attacking each other.
Steve sees a copper coin on the floor
and picks it up. Steve and Dennis take
the bleeding man to the ambulance, and the
officers find a bloody sword stuck to a wall.
Later, Steve and Dennis take
a break, and Steve plays golf.
Steve examines the coin he found and sees a date
stamped on it, seventeen twenty-one. Steve later
has himself checked for HIV, fearing that
the needle prick may have contaminated him.
The physician recommends that Steve goes through
a complete medical checkup, and he considers it.
The following day, Steve is with Dennis
at a family picnic celebrating Dennis's
daughter's birthday. Steve sees
Brianna, Dennis' eldest daughter,
alone, sitting on a small boulder,
and decides to approach her.
Dennis says Brianna had always connected with
Steve as she sees Steve as the cool uncle.
Brianna tries to tell Steve about how she feels,
but she gets cut off by Steve's phone call.
At work, Dennis and Steve make their way
to another tragic scene where somebody had
burned to death. Officers inform the pair
that they're unsure how the victim died,
seeing no other signs of fire
nearby. They do, however,
find an empty Synchronic wrapper as well as
an out-of-place doorknob that has melted.
Steve later gets a brain scan at the
hospital and discovers he has a tumor.
Dennis and Steve then respond to the earlier
couple who had taken the Synchronic at a hotel.
The woman who has a snake bite on her knee is in
a state of shock, only muttering her boyfriend’s
name. They find another Synchronic packet at
the scene, and the animal control personnel
tells them they’ve searched for the snake but
came up empty-handed. He also tells them that
he recognizes the snake bite, which could have
only come from a snake that had not been seen in
the area for decades. Steve then sees a bag from
a vape shop where the victim got the Synchronic.
The hotel caretaker tells them he heard a loud
bang from the elevator shaft, and Dennis goes to
look. He opens the elevator doors and finds the
woman's boyfriend at the bottom of the shaft,
dead, his face filled with euphoria.
On their way to the hospital,
Dennis notices Steve taking
painkillers more frequently.
At the hospital, a doctor tells Steve
that the tumor is cancerous, aggressive,
and affects his pineal gland. The doctor tells
Steve he may have as little as six weeks left to
live or as much as several decades. It all depends
on how he'll react to the medication and therapy.
Later, Steve considers telling
Dennis the news but holds off.
Dennis plays basketball with Brianna, trying
to connect with her. He’s worried that he may
have gone a little distant as a father and
is concerned about Brianna’s well-being.
Brianna tells Dennis that she’s not going
through something terrible. She’s just
worried that she still doesn’t know what to do
with her life. She’ll soon be going to college,
and she’s not sure whether or not the path
she’s taking is the right one for her.
Dennis hands Steve a birthday present at a bar,
a nifty desk lamp with a science theme to it.
Dennis then opens up about doubts he has
about his marriage. He's still unsure if
being a family man is what he wants. He looks at
Steve's lifestyle and can't help but feel jealous
of the bachelor's life. Dennis finally confronts
Steve about all the painkillers he's been taking,
concerned that Steve may develop a morphine
addiction. Steve doesn't tell Dennis that the
painkillers are for his chemotherapy and
promises that he'll take care of himself.
The next day, the pair arrives at a house party
where they're responding to a call about an
overdose. They find one teenager lifeless on
the floor and another speaking incoherently.
They ask her if there are others, and she
says a girl named Brianna was with them.
Dennis is terrified hearing his daughter's name.
He immediately calls his wife, and she tells him
that Brianna isn't at home. He finally confirms
that it is his daughter who has gone missing.
Now that someone close to him
has fallen victim to Synchronic,
Steve decides to visit the vape shop that sells
Synchronic and buys all the remaining packets.
A man sees Steve buying out the Synchronic
and later follows him to his car.
The man approaches Steve and offers
to buy the Synchronic from him,
even paying much more than the store’s price.
Steve tells the man off and drives away.
At Dennis’ house, he and his wife are
busy contacting the authorities and
printing out flyers for Brianna. His wife is
distraught, thinking they aren’t doing enough.
That night, Steve is lying
in bed with his dog Hawking
when he hears a noise coming from the living
room. He takes a bat and goes to investigate.
He opens the closet and finds the man from
the vape shop. Steve threatens to beat him,
but the man pleads and tells Steve he made
Synchronic. He introduces himself as Dr. Kermani,
a chemist, and has been trying to buy back
the Synchronic sold all over the country. He
explains that he makes synthetic drugs, changing
the molecular structure of legal medications
and turning them into something that mimics
illegal drugs. Synchronic was supposed to be
a simple hallucinogenic, but he accidentally made
a drug that allows people to travel through time.
Synchronic distorts the fabric of spacetime,
allowing people to crossover to different periods.
Synchronic has the most significant impact on a
person’s pineal gland. He explains adults with a
developed pineal gland can only appear as shadows
or ghosts in the past, but younger people who have
an underdeveloped pineal gland can travel entirely
and can even get stuck in a different time.
Kermani spent his time tracking down all
the Synchronic to destroy them, and the vape
shop was his final stop. Steve tells him that he
flushed the Synchronic down the toilet and orders
Kermani to leave. Kermani agrees, believing
all Synchronic had been eliminated. But it’s
revealed that Steve didn’t flush the Synchronic
down the toilet but only threw them in the trash.
The following day, Steve is at his chemotherapy
session. Once he finishes, he immediately feels
the side effects and starts vomiting randomly. At
work, Steve is exhausted all the time. Dennis gets
a call from the hospital, informing him there’s
a missing supply of morphine. He immediately
suspects Steve, not knowing about his chemotherapy
and seeing Steve taking more painkillers.
They soon get another call about a man
with a broken leg and head to the location.
They find the victim but are unable to
communicate because he spoke a different language.
They start treating the man, and Dennis
begins giving Steve instructions.
Steve is annoyed, saying he knows how to do
his job, but Dennis answers back he doesn’t,
implying Steve came to work drunk on morphine.
As they head out, they get into an argument.
Dennis calls Steve a manchild, and Steve calls
out Dennis for constantly complaining about his
life even if there’s nothing to complain about.
They start throwing fists at each other,
but the ambulance driver breaks them apart.
Steve leaves, heading back home alone.
That night, Steve examines the coin he got from
the crime scene and considers trying Synchronic.
A few minutes pass, and bright lights fill his
living room. He turns and sees a swampland slowly
appearing around him, his living room walls slowly
disappearing. His living room disappears entirely,
and he’s left in a swamp. He looks around,
smelling and touching everything, in disbelief
of what he’s seeing. A man stalks him from a
distance, muttering a prayer. Steve then sees
a crocodile approaching him, and he backs away,
also seeing that he’s starting to disappear.
The stalker is revealed to be a Spanish
Conquistador, and he starts charging at Steve.
Steve is terrified, caught between the
hungry crocodile and a sword-wielding madman.
Just as the Spaniard brings his sword down on
him, Steve appears back at his living room,
Hawking staring at him in curiosity.
He almost dismisses what happened as
a dream until he sees a slash mark on
the floor from the conquistador’s sword.
Steve decides to document his experience
with a video camera and narrates that the
pill allows him to go back in time for
seven minutes. He suspects that the same
thing could have happened to Brianna. He
takes another pill and slowly disappears.
He reappears in the middle of a frozen
wasteland and immediately starts freezing.
He sees a silhouette approaching
him, but he collapses from the cold.
Seven minutes pass, and he reappears
in his living room, shivering.
He discovers that his destination time period
is dependent on his location in the living room.
He tries again, this time wearing
a thick coat and carrying firewood.
He arrives at the frozen landscape again, and he
manages to start a fire. A figure approaches him,
pointing a spear. The figure comes closer,
and Steve sees he’s a caveman. He touches
the caveman’s spear, and the caveman lowers it.
Steve offers the caveman a seat, and they sit
across from each other. Steve slowly returns
to the present, observing that the caveman,
who was probably younger than him, looks decades
older. With his triumphant return to the ice age,
Steve confirms that wherever he stands
determines what period he arrives in.
The following morning, Dennis and his wife
are having more trouble with their marriage,
Brianna’s disappearance creating a
heavy burden on their relationship.
Steve hears from the radio that
doctor Kermani had committed suicide.
That night, Steve thinks about the copper coin,
the sword, and the doorknob, the three things that
the paramedics found with the victims. He tries
to experiment, aiming to bring Hawking with him
to the past. He plans to take the Synchronic, and
as he starts disappearing, he'll embrace Hawking.
He successfully brings Hawking back with
him. Unfortunately, they arrive at a period
where most of the population still has a
high level of discrimination towards race.
They pop up in a house where a man chases
them away. Steve and Hawking escape but see
that everyone in the town looks at them in
the same way. Seven minutes pass and Steve
doesn't disappear. He decides to return to
the house where he and Hawking appeared in.
Steve takes another pill, and they sneak
back in, but the man discovers them.
The man calls to his friends, and they appear in
white drapes. Chaos ensues in the living room,
and Steve gets separated from Hawking. Before
the men could shoot Steve, he reappears in his
living room without Hawking. He hears Hawking
whimpering and runs to the window to see Hawking
slowly fading away. Steve then makes two
more discoveries. First, if seven minutes
go by and you are not at the place where you first
appeared, you'll be stuck at the time you went to.
Second, you should hug tightly whatever you bring
with you, whether to the past or the present,
seeing that he only brought back
Hawking's leash. Unfortunately,
he can no longer retrieve Hawking as he
has too few pills to make the journey.
Steve then decides to head back to the university
dorm, where they discovered Brianna missing.
One of the teenagers earlier said they saw
Brianna sitting at a spot before disappearing,
and Steve tries to travel at the exact
location. He ends up in the middle of a
forest where several men conduct a ritual and
mistake him for a spirit they've summoned.
They swarm him, and Steve makes a run
back to the tree where he came from.
Fortunately, he was able to grab hold of a lawn
chair and got transported back to the present.
The teenager who told him about Brianna reappears
and clarifies that Brianna had wandered off.
She didn’t actually disappear
from that specific spot.
Steve later meets with Dennis at a bar and
the two talk. Dennis informs Steve that he
might be getting a divorce. He feels guilty
about not fulfilling the promise he made to
his wife on their wedding day. She's loved
him unconditionally, and he feels guilty,
feeling like he hasn't been returning the love.
He says that Brianna was the only one keeping
their marriage afloat, and now that she's gone,
he feels that nothing is holding them together.
Steve then reveals that he'd exchange his bachelor
life with Dennis's stable married life in a
heartbeat. Dennis is surprised, seeing that he
envies Steve's lifestyle. Steve then reveals the
truth about his brain tumor. Dennis is dumbfounded
and in complete shock upon hearing the news. Steve
tries to calm Dennis down by telling him he's been
doing chemotherapy. The two reconcile, with Dennis
revealing that it was actually their ambulance
driver who had been stealing the morphine.
At a cemetery, Steve shows Dennis video footage
of the evidence of Synchronic's effects.
Dennis is in more fear than shock, knowing that
Brianna had been plunged back into the past.
Dennis then realizes that Brianna may have left
a message for them to decipher in the present.
Steve remembers a small boulder at a local
park where Brianna had been sitting earlier.
On the stone written is the word, "Always."
Steve decides that could have possibly been where
Brianna was when she got transported. With only
two pills left, Steve takes the Synchronic and
gets transported to the time of the American
Civil War. The sound of bombs and gunshots fills
the air, and Steve runs to a bunker. In it,
he finds a mound of a dead soldier as he keeps
calling out to Brianna. He crawls through piles of
dead bodies until he finally hears Brianna calling
to him. Brianna is glad to see her uncle Steve
coming to the rescue. Steve hands Brianna the last
pill, and she swallows it. Steve explains that
they have to reach the boulder in seven minutes
or else they'd be stuck in the past forever.
They make a break for the boulder, but Steve had
been shot, and Brianna helps him across. A random
soldier appears, holding them at bay and calling
Steve a slave. Steve's seven minutes run out,
and he's stuck in his current time. He's now only
focused on getting Brianna back to the present.
Steve sees a mine in front of the soldier, and he
tries baiting him to get him to step on the mine.
Unfortunately, the soldier steps over it and
prepares to shoot Steve. Brianna disappears,
and a massive explosion rocks Steve and the
soldier. The soldier loses balance and steps on
the landmine, exploding him to pieces. Steve
rises to his feet and sits on the boulder.
In the present time, Brianna reappears,
and Dennis hugs her. They then see Steve
appearing ghostly on the boulder before
fading into nothing, stuck in the past.